---
layout: post
title: "Xcode Cloud and Github"
date: 2026-03-26
tags: [development]
issue_number: 7
---

<p>I practiced this and I could easily release builds to TestFilght for internal testing, and few clicks on Github to have new build for App Store submission.</p><h4 style="text-align: left;">Preparation:</h4><p></p><ol style="text-align: left;"><li>Once created new project in Xcode, immediately push it to Github to create a new repository as origin. Here we can use the default main branch.</li><li>At Github, create a new branch: <u>dev</u>.</li><li>At Xcode, switch to dev, and we will always push changes to <u>dev</u>.</li></ol><p></p><p>At Xcloud Cloud, we will define two workflows. We will trigger them with different conditions for different purposes.</p><h4 style="text-align: left;">Workflow 1: For track dev branch change, and for TestFlight</h4><p></p><ul style="text-align: left;"><li>Trigger: any file change at <u>dev</u> branch.</li><li>Action is to build, and distribute for TestFlight (internal test)</li><li>Post action is TestFlight internal test, choose the tester group (define separately)</li></ul><p></p><p>So, whenever you push to dev branch, will have a new build delivered to TestFlight for your internal testing. Very convenient.</p><h4 style="text-align: left;">Workflow 2 - For app store distribution</h4><p></p><ul style="text-align: left;"><li>Trigger: any file change at <u>main</u> branch</li><li>Action is build: app store connect.</li><li>No post action</li></ul><p></p><p>Usually you don't trigger this. If you want to release it to App Store after some nice build, you:</p><p style="text-align: left;"></p><ol style="text-align: left;"><li>At Github, create a Pull Request to merge dev into main.</li><li>When reply, use Merge.</li></ol><p></p><p>When dev branch is merged into main, it will trigger Workflow 2. Result is that a new build is created for app store.</p><p>You go to App Store Connect page, at release page, pick up this build and assign it to release.&nbsp;</p><p>Happy coding!</p><p><br /></p><p><br /></p>
